🔹 **Why shouldn’t I take double shield (SGE/SCH) in blind prog?** 🔹
Though double shield can be incredibly strong, it’s likely not the best heal composition for entering and progging a fight fully blind. A double shield composition’s strength hinges on an understanding of the fight’s damage timeline: if we know exactly when every instance of damage in a fight is, it’s much easier to script a mitigation plan with two healers that can provide 19% mitigation every 30s. In blind prog, spam GCDs are crucial: if you don’t understand a mechanic’s damage profile, then you want to throw whatever you have at it in order to survive. Though SCH’s Concitation and SGE’s Eukrasian Prognosis III are both incredibly strong buttons by themselves, the overheal granted by the shields does not stack. As such, one instance of Concitation + E. Prog III provides 300 healing potency and a single additional 360p shield. Notably, this can make recovery before or after the damage instance more difficult, especially in a setting with several hits over an extended duration. Alternatively, one use of SCH’s Concitation with AST’s Helios Conjunction can provide 450 healing potency, a 360p shield, and an 875p party regen.

🔹 **With the updates to Sage and Scholar, isn’t double shield broken?** 🔹
To some extent! The two jobs by themselves are incredibly useful in any heal composition. While Seraphism allows SCH to spam high-potency pure heals due to the quick cooldown on Emergency Tactics while the skill is active, it’s on a 3 minute cooldown and not something that’s readily available. Additionally, getting maximum value out of it depends on you and your cohealer knowing the fight’s timeline.

🔹 **I’ve heard that double shield is extremely strong in [pick your fight]. Does this make regen healers obsolete?** 
Not at all. In the game’s current design, regen healers will always have a place in standard compositions. Though both Sage and Scholar can fill the pure/regen niche at different times in the double shield composition, nothing beats the ability to have accessible pure healing GCDs that are always available and strong, pure healing oGCDs. The value of having two effective spam GCDs (E. Prog/Concitation + Helios Conjunction/Medica III) should never be understated.

🔹 **I love SGE and my cohealer loves SCH. When can we swap to double shield?** 🔹
At the end of the day, it’s your prog and your raid. If you and your team are comfortable accepting the composition’s weaknesses, feel free to play it when you are ready. This composition becomes easier to play the further we are from week 1 of a new tier. As you get more gear and as people become familiar with fights, double shield gains viability. A SCH/SGE duo in a party where everyone is maximum item level will be vastly different than a SCH/SGE duo in a party full of crafted gear.
